November 2014. I made a video about free software and did some video editing and then people have said since would you ever go back? to editing with free software and I Tried and failed miserably, but then I found that Rob is doing editing on free software. So Rob, what have you got? Well, so I before I started my channel, I'd never edited any video at all So I just got started with Caden live Kate is it Kate Katie and live Caden live I don't know how to pronounce I said Caine life because this is the piece of software I used actually right, and that's kind of why I used it because I Hadn't heard of I hadn't gotten into open source video editing before I heard it was fairly good It was the one you'd used so, you know, I went for that As it were so this is a video that I just Uploaded just recently, which is fairly typical or no, I think it's quite standard But on the other hand, I have no idea because I have never done video editing before well from my point of view That looks like a very sensible looking timeline. It's like using different tracks for different things Can you show us a bit of what sort of thing you've been doing with it? Like here for example, I'm compositing in Some thumbnails of the other of the computer file videos because it's relevant to those back in the day, these would have been Annotations, you know, they would be clickable YouTube doesn't do that anymore sad times talk us through the hardware Then what what have you what have you had to use to hardware is? This Did you make this specially I did? Yeah Just because I didn't have a desktop at all I tried using my laptop this one, which is just really really not up to it on account of being Extremely light and thin and just not made for any kind of heavy lifting So I put together this machine and it's pretty It's pretty standard here's me looking at the components that I'm putting in it Okay, so it's very off-the-shelf stuff, right? Yeah, pretty standard. The only thing I wanted was a lot of RAM It's got 16 gig of RAM so that I'm not going to run out doing basic video editing and a solid-state drive I have a 240 gig solid-state drive to do That holds my files temporarily while I'm working on them For performance and then a terabyte of hard disk to keep sorry two terabytes apparently Says here two terabytes. I'm looking at the video again. One thing that I run up against is my lack of experience with GNU Linux distros and The irony is that that was kind of what I was testing out throughout all of this Sure, so talk us through what you've got going there because you know a lot more about these sorts of things than I do Yeah, so I use I've been through a lot of different distributions. I started off with Ubuntu because everybody starts off with Ubuntu and then What else did I try I went to crunch bang because I thought Ubuntu Ubuntu got really I think it got really heavy Past a certain point It was including too much stuff and being too graphical and in your face and I use Linux mint for a while because that was very nice What I'm using here is Manjaro, which is based on arch But arch is a real arch is like Look I know people get almost religious about these things. Yeah, not there's no almost about it People people get literally unambiguously religious about these things, but you're a real console jockey Could anybody use this kind of distro or is this kind of a I mean, I don't use that term in a derogative way But I know, you know what you're doing with the console and yet me I need GUIs, right? Right, right Yeah, the console is my preferred way of interacting with my computer most of the time but Right, right, so I'm running Manjaro right which is arch based But arch you kind of have to build from the ground up the idea of arches by the time you have a running arch Linux installation you really Understand Linux because you have to you know, you've sort of it's not like you hit install and then you go off and have a Cup of tea and come back and you're done You have to actually make all of the decisions and run the commands to set up the system So is this like you are compiling your own kernels and stuff? Not quite But there's that kind of thing. Yeah, you're putting a lot of time into it So you have complete control you have complete customization. Everything is exactly how you want it but you've got to know what you're doing whereas Manjaro is arch based but Has some sensible defaults. So somebody's done some of that work for you. Yeah, so you can still use the arch repositories and things in the arch Wiki, which is amazing. Like the arch wiki is so good for all kinds of information about all kinds of software and Linux things But you don't have to sit there and go through this long Installation process and all of these decisions that you're not really sure what you want, you know so that's So that's Manjaro I kind of I do like it the update thing. It's very It's a rolling release thing so you're continuously getting updates It's not like you then install the next version. It's like every day. There's a couple of updates in your system continually updates But that does mean sometimes stuff can just break because some update has broken compatibility with something with something else and you have to sit there and Figure it out when you wanted to be doing work That was something that got me a little bit was that I had a workflow already in place So you've kind of set to work for like a flow up from scratch How's that workflow broken sometimes because of this have you have you been kind of back to square one sometimes? um, I had a problem with The laptop actually where an update broke my USB microphone it broke I Ended up in a weird situation where? the USB Audio kernel module was not present anymore because it had upgraded past itself or something and I wasn't sure it turns out it was fine, but it made me very nervous because Because the the modules I had were for a different version of the kernel so I guess the kernel had updated and that removed the old modules and replaced them with the new ones But I hadn't been paying attention when I was running the updates So I didn't know if my system was actually okay, or if there was some serious problem It turns out I rebooted everything was fine. It booted up with the new kernel version It found the new kind of modules everything worked perfectly well, but because I wasn't sure if I'd completely destroyed my system accidentally with an update. I Couldn't trust that if I rebooted it it would actually come up so I Made a full backup while it was running and stuff like that. Just didn't you know to be on the safe side? But that did cost me some time obviously and anyone sensible would have had a continuous update Process and it would have not cared at all if at any moment their machine exploded and you know always Drink enough water and get your five Vegetables a day and wake up at 6 a.m. For a run, but not everybody's like that I'm most comfortable doing most of my work in a terminal or a text editor Obviously if you're doing graphics or video you need a User interface a graphical user interface, but most of the time I find a terminal is more. It's more efficient. It's got a It's got a learning curve obviously But when you're good with it I think you can be better and faster than doing it through a GUI most of the time and I think people who are really Good with GUIs don't actually use the mouse very much, right? They learn the keyboard shortcuts. And so if you're learning how to do everything in a keyboard Anyway, you don't really need all the little buttons. It's kind of a it's like a Is it Wittgenstein's ladder some philosophers ladder you you climb up the ladder and then you throw it away when you're done with it, right? Great, but if you can climb you don't need the ladder So But yes Manjaro is usually Easier to use than this because I run a tiling window manager called awesome window manager Which I like because it makes efficient use of the screen space. So here you see I've got my text editor here Which is sublime. I have two terminals and if I want another terminal I Open it and it opens right here so The number of pixels on this screen that aren't one of the programs I'm using is is almost none, right? whereas if I put it into Here now it's in a more sort of normal Mode where I can move the the windows all like this and I can be like, oh now I'm in this this program Now in that program like this is closer to the way that people usually use Windering system, right, but a lot of the time I've got windows that are over the top of one another they're obscuring one another I've got bits of my screen where I'm not but there's nothing So that's how I do most of my stuff and you can obviously you can adjust these like you can Move them in and out and change their size relative to each other for whatever you need. Yeah, that's the window manager It's called awesome and I like it a lot But the point is if I were using Ubuntu with awesome window manager what you would see on the screen would be basically identical Because the window manager is determining pretty much everything on the screen. So The fact that I'm using my jar underneath isn't that relevant? from an aesthetic Perspective I'm showing my complete ignorance here What exactly would be different under the hood then for a completely different district, um, it's the way it's the choices of software that do the The system level stuff like it with something like with something like Windows Everything pretty much everything it comes from Microsoft Until you get up to user space like you get to choose, you know, which web browser you use but It comes with the One file Explorer and one like I don't know file system Network manager like all of the bits that build the operating system They come with it and they are not really removable or interchangeable whereas Linux you have the kernel which actually doesn't do that much and then everything else that makes up the operating system is Other pieces of software the other projects made by other people And you can what a distribution does is it picks a load of those? That work well together and puts them all together into a distro With you know sensible configuration so that they all know about one another and you know, ideally and they all work together. Well But any part of that system could in principle be pulled out and replaced by a different program that does the same job It's just like that the standard thing where you can choose You can choose how you're going to you know, what your web browser is. You can choose whether you're going to use, you know Libre office or Microsoft Word. It's that but all the way down Almost all the way down. I had a phase as a teenager I think a lot of people did where I was really Into it and I learned everything about how to put my system together and all the different little bits and now all of that knowledge is out of date and useless because I didn't keep up with it because once I found an Operating system set up that works for me. Hey, I realized I don't care It's interesting but there comes a point where you're using your system to work and you want to use whatever works, right? The thing is This just worked. I need to emphasize that because I Built this I built this PC. I put it together it booted the first time we expected it to you know and then I installed Manjaro on it uneventful process I Used, you know, I literally just went pac-man Minus s Caden live enter. That's the one thing that changes the package manager like different Distributions obviously use different repositories and different package managers. So you get your software from different places. They all do roughly the same thing though anyway, I just installed Caden live and It worked off the bat like I I import my videos. I import my audio. I sync them up I edit them. I hit export and I use here it is. I don't export I hit render I Go to this one. I just web them because that's Normal and it has all these extra options about you know, how you're gonna do the You know what the exact command is and all of this stuff I Ignored all of that. I hit render to file it renders. It's perfect. You upload it to YouTube it knows what to do like I didn't have to It worked out of the box, it's what I'm saying it was and so it's weird because Our experiences was so different And I don't know what to make of it because it's not as though I did anything brilliant, you know what I mean? It's not like I did some clever thing that made it all work or I hit a bunch of difficulties that I then knew exactly What to do because I'm so whatever I just it just worked for me But I would also argue that people have been working on all of these bits of software and Also that you know what you're doing with repositories and updating different Modules and you've used a completely different operating system. Sure I like it. So yeah, like I know those things like I have that knowledge some of it, but I didn't have to use it I suppose what I mean by that isn't necessarily that you've been tweaking because of course you've just told us you haven't but my My experience was that the distro that I used with the particular version of kdenlive on the particular hardware that I had Did work out of the box but not in all the areas. I needed it to that's interesting and rendering out was one of the areas I needed it to work so so one of the things one of the one of the decisions you make when you're choosing a distro is there's always a trade-off between Being up-to-date and being stable, right? And Arch and arch based distributions generally are They call them bleeding-edge, right because generally speaking you get the latest version of the software So having the latest version you're probably going to have the most stable You're gonna have the most bug fixes in place But also the most new features that people are trying out and a lot of software projects do use a system where? They have major releases Well, I used a long-term support release of Ubuntu. Exactly. Exactly However, it was 1204 which people were telling me was out of date at the time. It wasn't the latest major release Well, it was I think they I think the latest long-term release at the time was 14. Oh something Okay, and I couldn't get that to work at all So the long-term release didn't work now I'm not going to open up the hornet's nest But I will just say that I believe it to be something to do with graphics card drivers and I shall walk away at that Point. Yeah No, I mean This is the kind of thing I do. I do feel really bad for People who have to deal with that like the people who work in who work on open-source software Having to deal with the fact that people are gonna install Graphics cards which are undocumented right like the manufacturers Keep as a closely guarded secret exactly how it works And if they don't provide a driver or if they do that driver is just a binary blob that you can't You know, you can't look inside It doesn't tell you any useful information and they have to make something that works flawlessly with this tremend like GPUs are fantastically complicated Will be like or how it would be implemented or whatever. The idea of this paper is that it It lays out some problems that we can tackle now which will be helpful now and That I think will be helpful later on as well with more advanced AI systems and making them safe as well 